So your primary player character has looked around, patted themselves down, and
maybe pulled up a google map of their neighborhood.

Your goal is to introduce the apocalypse as gently or brutally as you want. Get
the character out of their house, get them somewhere they'll meet another
player.

Because people will be people, your other big goal is to assert realism as
gently or brutally as you want or need. Have the player get a heavy concussion
crashing a motorcycle they try to drive despite not knowing how to drive one.
Have them shot by a cop moments after responding to a hypoglycemic person by
murdering them. Or just nitpick: "Do you really know how to pick a lock?
Convince me you've done more than just watching a youtube video."

Here's an example.

The PPC is looking at their phone on the couch in the living room. They hear a
woman screaming outside.

They look out the window and don't see anything. The woman is still screaming.

Maybe the PPC calls 911. Maybe they go outside to check. Maybe they ignore it
completely by turning up their music. These are all realistic responses. If the
person says "I grab my baseball bat or shotgun," they better be able to convince
you that this is what they'd actually do in response to hearing someone scream
somewhere.

Suppose they turn up their music. This is a perfectly valid and perfectly
realistic reaction. It's also boring. You had better come up with something.

They turn up the music, wander around their house for a bit. Nuke some ramen, go
online, etc. You let them, they're playing themselves after all. It provides
realism, even if boring. Have a car crash into the side of their house in the
middle of their bowl of ramen, or something.

What if they're really spinning their wheels? Reacting to the apocalypse by
being very boring? Let them. That's entirely realistic. But *punish* them for
it. Midway through watching another youtube cat video, the power goes out. A
window shatters, and someone starts crawling through the shards. 

---

I'd suggest that in the first few minutes of playing, try to really hammer home
that they are playing themselves. That odds are they don't have bazookas, or
elaborate first aid kits, or the reflexive response to murder everything nearby.
Get them to really understand that they're playing themselves, and things will
go easier.

---

Just because it's a zombie apocalypse, doesn't mean that zombies are the only
way to die. Let your player die of dehydration after being trapped in their
apartment. Let them die of entirely preventable, foolish reasons even if they
never come face to face with a zombie. 

Imagine your player trapped in their apartment with their baby. No water,
limited food, no way of cooking food. Their stairs are barricaded with
furniture, and moving the last piece of furniture fucked up their back. They can
barely stand up, just breathing makes them want to scream in pain. And the baby
is crying.

